18:00 <killercup> # meeting time, @/all!
18:00 <killercup> first up, [what are we doing?](https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22tracking+issue%22)
18:01 <killercup> last meeting, we've talked about a bunch of topics and afterwards opened a  bunch of issues
18:01 <killercup> before getting into opening some more, let's take a minute to talk about the ongoing discussions
18:01 <epage> First off for me would be thank you for herding the cats and getting the readme up!
18:02 <killercup> @epage thanks! is anyone against merging https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/pull/17 ?
18:03 <killercup> nothing's set in stone, but i think we've converged on the major points in these issues
18:04 <killercup> (i'll merge it after the meeting/tonight unless someone objects)
18:04 <matthiasbeyer> I think it is appropriate. And having the option to include TUIs in the scope later (that's how I understand the statement at the bottom of the file) is nice.
18:04 <epage> Personally, I'd prefer a  shorter, easier to process description of a CLI *but* seeing the sausage made, I realize its hard to do
18:05 <killercup> cool
18:06 <killercup> alright
18:07 <killercup> the biggest issues by number of comments are config files (<https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/7>), colors (<https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/15>), and distribution (<https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/8>)
18:08 <killercup> would you say these are also the areas where we can find actionable stuff to do for the next 2-3 weeks?
18:08 <Dylan-DPC> is colors a big issue right now? i mean we can work on it but i don't think colors isn't going to be a blocker for someone releasing a cool CLI :P
18:08 <killercup> true
18:08 <matthiasbeyer> :+1: 
18:08 <killercup> but the issue might be "what colors crate to use" ;)
18:09 <matthiasbeyer> yes, there are several options from what I know. Would be nice to have one "standard" here with a easy and nice API.
18:09 <Dylan-DPC> [edit] is colors a big issue right now? i mean we can work on it but i don't think colors is  going to be a blocker for someone releasing a cool CLI :P
18:11 <matthiasbeyer> Searching for "color" in crates.io gives 250 results, searching "color" and "cli" gives 24. Not all of them are for this use-case, but having to select one gets harder the more options there are.
18:11 <killercup> absolutely, and ideally one that follows best practices and is cross platform so you just don't have to think about it
18:11 <epage> How do we even want to handle the conversations?  Would it help to have someone directing the conversation and summarizing it in the top issue?  Should we be created WG RFCs?
18:12 <epage> for example, the config one has gotten pretty long at this point
18:12 <epage> and for distribution, it seems like "what is the role of cargo" needs its own thread.
18:12 <matthiasbeyer> :+1: 
18:13 <killercup> @epage an RFC works if you have a spec… i'm not sure that works best for our issues
18:13 <killercup> [edit] @epage an RFC works if you have/want to write a spec… i'm not sure that works best for our issues
18:14 <epage> btw I'd be willing to facilitate the packaging discussion since I already have a goal of seeing that improve.
18:14 <killercup> btw, the config issue has already resulted in a bunch of activity on https://github.com/soc/directories-rs
18:14 <yoshuawuyts> killercup: yay!
18:15 <epage> Nice!
18:16 <killercup> @epage do you want to open more specific issues? if yes, which ones? :D
18:16 <killercup> (re distribution)
18:17 <Dylan-DPC> if there are any dicussions going on in other crates we can add them to #14
18:17 <killercup> :+1: 
18:19 <kbknapp> @killercup I'm on mobile, and can give a more detailed first thoughts on the survey later, but what jumps out to me is this:
18:19 <kbknapp> People want more examples, guides, and standardization
18:19 <Dylan-DPC> ya documentation & examples 
18:19 <kbknapp> Colors, config files, error handling seem to the biggest gaps
18:20 <kbknapp> Packing is also a naojor concern
18:20 <kbknapp> Major*
18:20 <killercup> @kbknapp thanks for checking in! yeah, that's how i read the survey so far, too
18:20 <kbknapp> Also the ergonomics of file/path handling is a big thing
18:21 <matthiasbeyer> Cannot :+1: that enough!
18:21 <epage> Are there any write-ins on the fie/path problems?
18:21 <killercup> also, clap by far the #1 most referenced crate :)
18:21 <kbknapp> I'll post a gist of my more detailed comments later today when I get to a computer and link it here
18:21 <epage> Thanks!
18:22 <matthiasbeyer> The combination of testing and filesystem access is not covered by any crate, from what I see.
18:22 <killercup> @kbknapp awesome, thanks!
18:22 <kbknapp> I think there's also some hidden gem crates in the cli space I wasn't tracking
18:22 <Dylan-DPC> ya that's where we have to chip in @matthiasbeyer 
18:22 <yoshuawuyts> testing + fs, is that different from https://docs.rs/dir-diff/0.2.0/dir_diff/ ?
18:22 <epage> @matthiasbeyer good to know its something already on my radar.  
18:23 <kbknapp> Might be nice to call some of those out and speak to "finding quality crates" issue
18:23 <epage> dir-diff is very limited.  It only gives a boolean pass/fail
18:23 <epage> It doesn't let you check for more specific files, set of filesystem test fixtures, etc
18:23 <killercup> @kbknapp i have a good/useful aggregation of referenced crates, remind me to send it to you :)
18:23 <yoshuawuyts> epage: ah yeah, gotcha
18:23 <matthiasbeyer> Well, I have to revoke my statement a bit: There's the "filesystem" crate and the "rsfs" crate which seem to try to implement a mock of the filesystem and operations so that one can do tests on an "inmemory filesystem"
18:24 <kbknapp> If you look at the survey in Google sheets view see the second tab
18:24 <matthiasbeyer> When I searched last time there was no valueable option, so I implemented my own for this (in imag)
18:24 <killercup> @matthiasbeyer can you comment on https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/9 ?
18:24 <epage> I'm always hesitant about mocking the file system.  Either test directly against if or crate a trait for an abstraction just above the file system.
18:25 <killercup> @epage and i talked a bit about assert_cli plans, maybe we can write down a plan over the next week
18:25 <gitter> [Github] matthiasbeyer commented in rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg on issue: Testing CLI apps https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/9#issuecomment-371881945
18:25 <matthiasbeyer> @killercup done. Going to expand the comment later
18:26 <killercup> thanks!
18:26 <killercup> @kbknapp any completely new things that you noticed in the survey results?
18:26 <gitter> [Github] matthiasbeyer commented in rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg on issue: Testing CLI apps https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/9#issuecomment-371881945
18:27 <Dylan-DPC> > Security credential handling. I wrote the 'credentials' crate to work with Hashicorp vault and/or environment variables.
18:28 <killercup> @Dylan-DPC interesting! seems specific to Vault, though
18:28 <Dylan-DPC> yeh
18:29 <kbknapp> @killercup I think so, but it's in my extended notes :P I can't remember off the top of my head
18:29 <gitter> [Github] epage commented in rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg on issue: Testing CLI apps https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/9#issuecomment-371883157
18:30 <killercup> @kbknapp no prob, we'll definitely talk about all of this again later :)
18:30 <Dylan-DPC> everything else fits into the config / colors / cross-platform boxes
18:30 <killercup> let's get back to config file management for a sec
18:30 <Dylan-DPC> [edit] everything else fits into the config / colors / cross-platform / TUI  boxes
18:31 <killercup> is there anything uncontroversial we can just _do_ right now to make it better?
18:31 <killercup> even if just experiment
18:31 <killercup> [edit] even if just as an experiment
18:31 <Dylan-DPC> from the survey: 
18:31 <Dylan-DPC> > A nice crate to handle multi-location config (global, user, project, cli/env).
18:31 <Eijebong> Sorry, just got here :wave: 
18:32 <killercup> @Eijebong :wave: 
18:32 <matthiasbeyer> What am I missing? From what I see all it needs is a serialization technique selected (json, toml, yaml via serde) plus a way to get the location of the file. So, all we need to address is the "location" part, isn't it?
18:32 <killercup> @matthiasbeyer maybe?
18:33 <killercup> is adding a file-storage thing to the configure crate a good idea right now?
18:33 <killercup> or do we need something else?
18:33 <kbknapp> A crate that *just* handles the where to store a global/user global config file is something we can do now...combinging it with format, , env, project, etc makes the scope too big
18:34 <kbknapp> My auto-correct is a mess right now ;)
18:34 <killercup> @kbknapp i think directories-rs gives us a system locations
18:34 <matthiasbeyer> Yes. And while we're at it: That crate should be able to hold "dummy" configuration files for testing.
18:34 <kbknapp> Including cross platform "user global"?
18:35 <kbknapp> I.e. `~/.conig` etc
18:35 <killercup> @kbknapp haven't seen it but maybe
18:35 <matthiasbeyer> So its API should not give `PathBuf` but rather `R: Read`, IMHO.
18:35 <kbknapp> Config*
18:36 <killercup> okay, another questions: how about we write a config file adaptor for the configure crate and see how far we can go before it all breaks apart? :)
18:36 <Dylan-DPC> sounds fun :P
18:36 <gitter> [Github] epage commented in rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg on issue: Config file management https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/7#issuecomment-371885056
18:37 <killercup> and if yes, who's interested in doing that? (besides me)
18:37 <matthiasbeyer> :+1: 
18:37 <Dylan-DPC> i'm in
18:38 <killercup> awesome. i'll make a repo and add you and whoever else wants in :)
18:39 <Dylan-DPC> sounds good
18:40 <killercup> great. next on the agenda:
18:41 <killercup> ## do we want to form a "cli core team"?
18:41 <epage> What do you envision this core team would do?
18:41 <killercup> basically organize and oversee the current efforts
18:42 <matthiasbeyer> Isn't that what the CLI WG already does? 
18:42 <matthiasbeyer> or is there a difference between WG and Team?
18:42 <killercup> but who is the "CLI WG"? :)
18:42 <matthiasbeyer> hm. true.
18:42 <Eijebong> @killercup Anyone who participates ?
18:43 <killercup> i'm just wondering if you want to have more defined "membership" or if it's fine as-is
18:43 <Dylan-DPC> i think it is better to split up in different sub-groups each of them tackling certain issues
18:43 <Eijebong> I'm not against it but I think it's fine as is
18:43 <Dylan-DPC> cause once we start the actual work on the issues it will be a mess
18:44 <killercup> right, that's a related thing: it'd be awesome to assign people to issues
18:45 <killercup> e.g., @epage, you mentioned working distribution-things, can i assign you <https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/8> so people have someone to talk to? :)
18:45 <epage> Sure!
18:46 <killercup> to do that i'll need to add you to a team that manages that repo ;)
18:47 <killercup> @Dylan-DPC so, i'll probably create a "cli team" on github, who the people who are part of this WG and who are tackling issues (and who i talk about these issues) are part of :)
18:48 <Dylan-DPC> sounds good
18:48 <epage> Would it make sense for us to have a repo anyways to consolidate management of CLI related crates (if the authors desire)?
18:49 <killercup> @epage what do you mean by "consolidate management" specifically?
18:50 <Dylan-DPC> i think that would be too many repos and too much of "jumping around" of discussions.
18:50 <epage> Thinking of your blog post, crate-ci org, assert.rs org, etc.  An org to be a home for cli crates where we can help each other
18:50 <killercup> i totally fine with using the cli-wg repo for planning and discussing ideas larger than crate-specific implementation details
18:51 <killercup> @epage ah, i see
18:51 <Dylan-DPC> we could have an organisation of clique and have all the repos under it if the authors have no problems with that. That way don't have to go around hunting for crates 
18:52 <gitter> [Github] uazu commented in rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg on issue: Embrace Standardized Color Control https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg/issues/15#issuecomment-371891061
18:52 <killercup> maybe. not sure if "help each other" is enough of a common thing to make up an org for tools that might do vastly different things
18:52 <epage> True
18:53 <killercup> @Dylan-DPC for actual cli apps? or did you mean for libraries
18:53 <Dylan-DPC> i meant for libraries
18:55 <matthiasbeyer> I like that idea, actually. It somewhat resembles my idea of a "abandoned crates team". That way, we would join efforts towards a high-quality and maintained ecosystem for CLI libraries.
18:55 <killercup> libraries make way more sense :) we can do that
18:55 <epage> To clarify, I also meant libraries
18:55 <Dylan-DPC> :D
18:55 <killercup> :D
18:55 <killercup> anyone want to create a rust-clique org? :)
18:55 <epage> like clap, config, directories, keyring, etc
18:56 <killercup> okay, let's do it!
18:56 <matthiasbeyer> <3 awesome.
18:57 <killercup> i need to leave in a few minutes, but will accept any and all github orga invites :)
18:58 <Dylan-DPC> done
18:58 <killercup> <3
18:58 <matthiasbeyer> Feel free to invite me, too. 
18:58 <matthiasbeyer> I hope I can help with things.
18:59 <Dylan-DPC> done
18:59 <Dylan-DPC> anyone else?
18:59 <killercup> auto-generated avatar looks like a person with open arms, awesome :D
18:59 <killercup> ## any other topics you want to discuss in this meeting?
19:00 <matthiasbeyer> None that I can currently think of. :-)
19:00 <killercup> feel free to just start discussion stuff here ~~if~~ when you think of something :)
19:03 <killercup> alright! thanks for spending an hour this friday with the CLI WG :)
19:03 <Dylan-DPC> :D
19:04 <matthiasbeyer> <3 Thank you, too! :-)
19:09 <killercup> oh, just saw https://matthias-endler.de/2018/ls/
19:10 <killercup> touches/shows some stuff that's not entirely awesome in rust clis right now (sadly not using quicli)
